**Assessment of Prosody Skills**

**Objective:** To measure prosodic skills of children's oral reading

**Concept:** To develop test tools for the effective and comprehensive
assessment of prosody of children's oral reading in English as well as
Indic languages.

**Issues addressed:** Accurate perception and production of the ranging
aspects of prosody are a significant component of successful social
communication. The need of trained evaluators for the same, puts a limit
on the number of children that can be evaluated. Without a diagnostic
evaluation it is difficult for teachers to provide learning content
according to the child's need.

**Project Plan:**

  Steps                                                                                                                                                 Know-how                                        Status
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- -------------
  Project Conceptualization - which prosodic skills to look for and what should be the labels                                                           Prosodic Skills Expert                          Not Started
  An android app to collect labeled dataset to be used for testing and training the ML model                                                            Android Development                             Not Started
  Audio sample filtering - remove background noise and speaker diarization to extract only child's voice                                                Audio-signal processing                         Not Started
  Develop and test ML Model to take filtered audio samples and corresponding labels as input and predict the prosodic skills and areas of improvement   Machine Learning and Deep Learning Algorithms   Not Started
  Conceptualize and integrate the designed ML model with an Android app (Deployment)                                                                    Android Development                             Not Started

**Details:** Pitch, duration, and stress are the phonetic correlates of
prosody. The physical correlates of these features are the speech's
fundamental frequency (F0), syllable duration, and intensity,
respectively. Phonological correlates of prosody include the variations
in pitch, length, and loudness that are produced in speech for conveying
subtle changes in the meaning of spoken messages independent of words
and grammatical order. In other words, stress and intonation are used to
convey the grammatical, affective, and pragmatic functions of language.
We aim to design a model in which the functions of prosody are
identified at the grammatical and affective levels of communication.

The grammatical functions of prosody include:

\(a\) determining the boundaries of phrases, clauses, or sentences,
particularly when there is ambiguity (e.g., /FRUIT, SALAD and MILK/ vs.
/FRUIT-SALAD and MILK/) and

\(b\) differentiating between word classes when there are homonyms
(e.g., a noun and verb that sound the same but are differentiated by
prosody).

The affective function of prosody is the use of prosodic features such
as pitch contour, pauses, and word stress to express the speaker's
emotions and attitudes. Prosodic patterns convey different emotions.
Happiness, for example, is characterized by a fast speaking rate, rising
pitch, high variability, and fast voice onsets, and sadness is nearly
the opposite. Such models could help teachers identify which students
are making adequate progress.
